In this lecture we're going to go ahead and create this criss cross pattern and frame pattern for our
wedding crypt.
So let's go ahead and jump back into our document that has our two wooden pieces of texture and what
we're going to do is we're going to add a Shadowline along the edge of both of these.
So I'm going to zoom in there and using my marquee tool I'm going to go ahead and make a selection all
the way down the side.
Slugs this whole purple side like so then I'm going to go ahead and fill that in with our dirt.
Purple that we selected before foreshadow.
So I'll fill that in and then I'm going to use my Marki tool again and I'm going to click within the
center of my selection and that's going to allow me to take that selection and move it to wherever I
like without moving the content within it that I'm going to go ahead and fill in on the other piece
of wood just like it did before.
Like so.
So that's going to help us differentiate between the two pieces of wood when we're using them.
Now let's go ahead and use or marking tool to select one of these and copy it and we'll bring it in
to our document.
Let's go ahead and shrink that down with our Transform Tool.
Now for Chris cross-pieces we're going to have to rotate these the way you rotate is by coming up to
the corner of your transform selection and you'll see you get this bent arrow sort of icon.
What we want to do is we want to rotate it by clicking and dragging like so.
But if you just click and drag it's going to not necessarily be an exact angle that you want it.
So what we're going to do is we're going to undo that.
And what we want to do is we want to hold down shift as we rotate.
And what that's going to allow us to do is it's going to allow us to rotate in two standard angles.
So if I hold down shift and then start rotating.
You'll see this little tab up here.
The black one it says negative 15 degrees I can go again and now it says negative 30 now says negative
45 and that's what we want we want it to be at a 45 degree angle.
Now let's go ahead and move that into place and then we can go ahead and start shrinking that into the
correct size.
So remember to hold down shift to keep us portions.
Now this piece of wood isn't long enough.
So what I can do is I can grab this little tab on the end here and I can just pull that out like so.
Same with the other side.
Perfect.
Let's go ahead and enter.
Great.
Now let's go ahead and grab our other piece of wood.
Well go ahead and copy that paste that in.
Shrink it down.
And we're going to do the exact same thing that we did with our other plank wooden so hold down Shift
rotate to 45 degrees get that in place.
Then we're going to stretch that out so grab this tab pull it out there pull it out there.
Now we can go ahead and hit enter.
Now let's turn these off to see which way these are going.
So this guy needs to be on top of that guy.
So going to drag this layer underneath.
And that works just perfect next.
Let's go ahead and add in our frame pieces.
So I'm going to come back into my document and I'll copy this guy and I'm going to paste them in like
so and what we want to do is we want to keep this shadow side on the inner side of our document.
So this piece of wood is going to go on this side.
So let's shrink them down.
But there should be good
now we're going to shrink it down until it lines up at the top the bottom of our crate.
Let's go ahead and enter and what we want is we want this edge right here to be lined up with the drawing
line that's underneath it.
So right there.
So it seems like it's already pretty lined up.
And what we're going to do now is we're going to turn down the opacity on that layer so we can see this
other edge.
Now using a marquee tool we're going to go ahead and select up to that black edge and then we're going
to go ahead and hit delete.
Now we did delete the purple edge which is kind of our shadow edge but that's OK because in this case
we actually don't want to have a shadow edge on the corners of our crate or the edges of our Creator.
So this works perfectly.
Let's turn that back up.
Now what we're going to do is we're going to go ahead and take this and copy it then we're going to
go ahead and paste it and then we want to rotate it 90 degrees like so now we're going to drag that
into place over here.
Enter.
Perfect.
Now we have a little bit hanging out over the edge on this guy so we're going to come back to his lair.
He's my marquis told just go ahead and delete that.
Great.
Now we need to drag both these layers up so that they're not being covered by these criss cross pieces
of wood.
So select both of them and I'm going to drag them up above both of those pieces of wood next.
Let's go ahead and do the other side and the top side.
So I'm going to select my other piece of wood now.
And copy that and bring it in.
Shrink it down.
And we want to make sure that we have it in the correct proportions and also the correct size.
That to about there enter and then I'm going to go ahead and flip this because I want this darker side
on the inside.
So the way I do that is by using my Transform Tool then right clicking and coming down to flip horizontal
it just flipped over to the other side.
Let's go ahead and hit enter next.
Let's go ahead and turn down that opacity so we can see what's going on.
And you'll see it's moving over the edge a little bit too much over here.
So use my keys on my keyboard.
I can go out and notice that over.
Then using my Marki tool I'm going to go ahead and select up to that black edge and hit delete.
Now you also see that this guy right here is hanging over a little bit too much.
So I can come to that layer.
Hit delete also.
And that just took care of that.
Now let's come back up to this player and turn the opacity back up so we can see what's going on.
Perfect.
Now we want this guy to be underneath this bottom plank of wood.
So I'm going to drag him under like so.
And now we're going to go ahead and copy this letter.
So the markets will select him copy and then months Paestum and then we're going to rotate them 90 degrees
and this will be our top piece.
So put that guy right there enter.
Perfect.
So now we have our pattern.
Let's go ahead and merge all these letters together.
So starting with the top one I'm going to go ahead and come all the way down to my bottom layer which
is the sky and select all of those and we'll go ahead and merge.
So now those are all one layer.
Next let's go ahead and copy that layer and let's drag a guy over like so let's make sure he's above
our other extra patterns.
And now we're going to go ahead and shape them and distort them so that he fits to our perspective.
So he's my Transform Tool come into the store or go ahead and line him up with our corners and because
we already have a square there that's basically the same size should click right into place are just
about perfect.
Let's go ahead and hit enter.
Fantastic.
Let's make another copy of this pattern.
And we'll drag them up to the top then we'll drag him over.
NIMAL do the distortion once more
that I will be tracked there that get to that corner.
This one to that corner and this one to that corner and why enter perfect out this is looking kind of
flat.
But don't worry we're going to fix that in a second.
The reason why it's looking flat is because there should be an edge on the edge of these planks of wood
as well as the top on and the bottom one.
So we're going to add that in right now.
So the way we do that is by coming over to our layers and then we're going to hold down control or command
and then we're going to click our thumbnail on our layer and you can see what that does is it selects
the entire shape on that layer.
Next we're going to add a new layer underneath that layer and then we're going to go ahead and fill
that in with our dark purple color that we had before.
I can't see it because it's behind the Slayer but if we unselect out of this and then use the grab and
move tool and then use the arrow keys on our keyboard we can nudge that out like so.
Nancy see that gives it a nice little edge.
Now we also have this little bit that's sticking out over this edge and we don't want that.
So we're going to go ahead and select that and then hit delete.
Perfect.
Now let's do the same for the other side.
So we're going to come to that layer.
Hold down control or command and select that thumbnail.
So now we have our layer shape selected.
Let's add a new layer underneath that fill it in with our derk purple and using the arrow keys on a
keyboard.
We can go ahead and nudge that over great.
Now to make this look a little bit more interesting we can also add a little bit of shading around the
edges of each one of these triangles to make its pattern stand out.
So the way we'll do that is exactly how we just added the shadow.
The only differences is we're not going to move it and we're going to blur the image.
You'll see what I mean here in a second.
So let's go ahead and come to our outer layer and we're going to select that shape.
Then add a new layer underneath it and we're going to fill this in with black.
Next we're going to come into our filters around and come down to blur and then we're going to come
over to Jane blar.
And now what that does is it adds a blur to our black image.
But I also see some of that black out because it's blurring outwards.
So let's go ahead and play with this see how much blur we want summer about there should be good.
FLATOW OK.
But now you see we have a little bit sticking out over these edges and we do not want that.
So the way we'll take care of that is by coming down to this bottom layer and we'll select that shape
and making sure you're still on your black layer that we just created.
We're going to go ahead and invert the selection and if you remember the way we invert the selection
is by hitting control shift I command a shift.
If you're on a Mac.
And then we can go ahead and hit delete.
That gets rid of all of the area that was hanging out over the edge of our crypt.
Now we can also bring down the opacity on this layer if it looks like too much to you.
So we're going to bring it down to about 75 percent.
Now let's do the same for the other side.
So I'm going to select that shape add a new layer underneath it fill it in with black and now what I
can do is because I still have that setting set up in my filters you'll see we have guavas and blur
right there.
We can go ahead and click that or we can hit control f and that we'll just apply the same effect with
the scene settings to our image.
If you're on a Mac you're going to hit command f next.
Let's go ahead and select the under shape so that would be the sky down here.
So now that we have that shapes selected Let's come back up to our shadow layer and then we're going
to invert the selection and hit delete then let's not forget to bring down the opacity so it matches
our other side.
So bring it to about 75 percent perfect bright.
This is looking pretty good next to what we want to do is we want to add a shadow to one side.
So we need to decide which side is going to be our highlight side and which side is going to be the
shadow side.
I'm going to pick this side right here as the shadow side but you can pick whatever side you'd like.
Now before we do this let's go ahead and merge all these layers together and also make a copy of all
these layers.
So I'm going to select all of them and then I'm going to go ahead and make a copy.
So now I have a copy of all those layers and then I'm going to put those into a folder and then I can
select all the rest of them and merge those together.
So now I have one we turn this off.
Now we have one that's one whole piece.
And if I turn this folder on I have a folder that has all of my original pieces in it.
So that way I can go ahead and change things later if I want.
It's always important to keep all of your layers before you merge them.
That way if you ever need to change anything you can let's come back to this one that we created.
That's its own piece.
So as you can see there it's all one piece.
And what we're going to do is we're going to select that shape that we're going to add new layer above
it.
And what we want to do on this layer is we want to grab our color black and our brush tool and I'm going
to switch over to a hard edged brush and I'm going to paint a line straight down the side a little bit
too far over like so.
So we want to right on the edge of this side of our crate and we can completely filled that him with
black and then we're going to go ahead and bring down the opacity on that to about there.
And what we can do to make us look even more interesting is we can change or blend mode from normal
to overlay and that's just going to apply that color that's underneath it to our value.
So let's play with the opacity real quick and see what looks best.
Something about there I think looks pretty interesting.
Next let's go ahead and add a little bit of some cool color to our shadow so I'm going to add a new
layer above this and then I'm going to select my black layer.
So now I have this little area selected where shadows and what I'm going to do is I'm going to fill
that in with a blue.
So somewhere in there come more down to the blues actually.
Let's keep it in the purple's go ahead.
OK then I'm going to fill that in like so now I'm going to change that layer to overlay and I'm going
to bring my opacity down.
Now that's looking a little bit too violent for me.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to fill that in with more of a blue color.
And I think that will give me more of the purple color that I'm looking for.
Yep there we go.
I was bring the opacity down on that a little bit too much for me.
So about 50 percent would be good great.
Now let's go ahead and merge all of these layers together.
So now that's all one layer and let's have a look at this.
At 100 percent scale.
So I'll just hit Olt to zoom out.
Now click until it comes out to 100 percent and that's what it's going to look like in your game.
All right.
You just created your first game Assa in Photoshop.
I hope you're really proud of yourself and excited.
Now in the next lecture we're going to go over how to create even more advanced textures for your wooden
crate.
Thanks for watching and I look forward to seeing you in the next lecture.